Capital Eye Care 

Kind & Patient Eye Doctors
We aren't your typical eye office in Salem. Our mission is to transform your eye care experience by combining world-class service with state-of-the-art facilities. At Capitol Eye Care, you can rest assured that you are in good hands. Our team of Optometrist are trained and board certified in the latest treatment and management of ocular diseases and conditions. Welcome aboard-we can't wait to meet you.
Our Doctor:
Cameron Hoover, OD
Dr. Hoover, OD, PhD earned his BS in molecular biology from the University of Arizona and his PhD in neuroscience from the University of California, Irvine. He then spent several years as a stay-at-home dad before returning to school to earn his Doctor of Optometry from Pacific University. Dr. Hoover is focused on primary eye care for patients of all ages. His friendly and calm demeanor is appreciated by his patients. Dr. Hoover strives to provide each patient with the best in patient care. He finds importance in ensuring each patient has an understanding of both their vision and comprehensive eye health. Dr. Hoover moved to Salem in 2012 with his wife, who is a family physician, and his three children. When not at work he enjoys spending time with his family, hiking, movies and playing guitar.
Location & Hours:
Capitol Eye Care
2755 Commercial St. SE, Ste 102
Salem, OR 97302
Phone: 503-363-9011
Hours
Monday: 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM
Tuesday: 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM
Wednesday: 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM
Thursday: 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM
Friday: 8:30 AM - 5:30 PM
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed
Note: Capitol Eye Care is closed daily between 1:00 PM and 2:00 PM for lunch.
Technology - Advanced Eye Care:
Visual Field TestingA visual field test measures the range of your peripheral or "side" vision to assess for blind spots (scotomas), peripheral vision loss, or visual field abnormalities. It's a painless test that doesn't use eye drops but requires the patient to understand and follow instructions. A special machine can be used to test your visual field, where you place your chin on a chin rest and look ahead. Lights are flashed on, and you press a button whenever you see a light. The test takes 15-45 minutes for each eye and can create a computerized map of your visual field to identify any deficiencies.
OPTOS Retinal ExamThe optomap® Retinal Exam is an important part of the eye exams offered at the office. It produces an image that gives the doctor a wide view of the retina's health. The retina is the part of the eye that captures the image of what you're looking at, similar to film in a camera. Diseases like macular degeneration, glaucoma, retinal tears or detachments, and other health issues such as diabetes and high blood pressure can be seen with a thorough exam of the retina.
An optomap® Retinal Exam provides:
A scan to show a healthy eye or detect disease.
A more detailed view of the retina for your doctor.
The opportunity for you to view and discuss the image of your eye with your doctor at the time of your exam.
A permanent record for your file, allowing the practice to look for changes each year.
The exam is fast, easy, and comfortable for all ages. You simply look into the device one eye at a time, and a flash of light lets you know the image has been taken. The image is shown immediately on a computer screen for review.
Our Eye Care Services:
Comprehensive Eye Exams: These exams are not just for updating your prescription. The doctor screens for various issues and uses advanced technology.
Contact Lens Exams: Routine exams won't provide the necessary measurements and testing for contact lenses, but the practice can fit most patients, including those who are hard-to-fit.
Eye Condition Treatment: They treat a short list of common eye conditions like astigmatism, dry eye syndrome, and presbyopia.
Eye Disease Management: The practice diagnoses and manages ocular diseases such as Glaucoma, Macular Degeneration, Diabetic Retinopathy, and Cataracts.
Eye Emergencies (Pink/Red Eyes): Your optometrist can help with red eyes, pink eye, sore eyes, foreign body removal, and other eye emergencies.
LASIK & Refractive Surgery Co-Management: The office provides co-management for LASIK, cataracts, and other ocular surgeries.
Latisse: They offer Latisse™ for longer, thicker lashes.
Eyeglasses & Contact Lenses:
The optical offers a wide range of eyewear, including the latest styles in designer sunglasses and prescription eyeglasses. They also carry accessories to complete your purchase. The staff can help you find the best fit for your needs and explain how different lenses and frames will impact your vision. They also offer a wide range of contact lenses, including exams and fittings.
Insurance:
Medical Plans Accepted:
Medicare
United Healthcare
Aetna
Blue Cross Blue Shield
Health Net
Providence Health Plan
MODA
Pacific Source Community Solutions
Atrio Health Plans
The document notes that they accept Oregon Health Plan/Medicaid/Pacific Source Community.
Vision Plans Accepted:
VSP
Blue Cross Blue Shield
Spectera
Eyemed Vision Care (most, but not all plans)
Health Net
Providence Health Plan
MODA
Pacific Source Community Solutions
If you don't see your plan listed, you can call the office for assistance. The staff can also answer questions regarding your benefits.
CareCredit
As a service to patients, Capitol Eye Care offers the CareCredit card, which is a payment program that allows you to start your procedure immediately and pay for it over time with low monthly payments.
The document also has sections with information on understanding your vision insurance plan and FAQs about vision insurance plans. Vision insurance is designed to provide routine eye care, prescription eyewear, and other services at a reduced cost.